dbt models are stored as materializations in databases and data warehouses. There are a total of five types of materialization that you can use in dbt:
- View
- Table
- Ephemeral
- Incremental
- Materialized View

### 1. View
The default form of dbt materialization is view. When using the view materialization, your model is rebuilt as a view on each run, via a create view as statement.

#### Pros
- They will always contain the latest records in the database or data warehouse as they are treated as views

#### Cons
- Views are generated on the run time and they don’t store any data. Every time they are accessed they will calculate data from scratch. This tends to create performance issues if many views are dependent to each other.

#### When to use
- Initial steps in dbt modelling before finding the correct materialization strategy.
- Views are best suited for models that do not do significant transformation, e.g. renaming, or recasting columns.
- Small datasets that doesn’t require extensive calculations.

### 2. Table
The next form of materialization is table . When using the tablematerialization, your model is rebuilt as a table on each run, via a create table as statement.

#### Pros
- Tables contain data in databases and data warehouses. If we need to access to the same data multiple times, tables provide a better performance compared to views as they don’t need to access to the underlying tables every single time.

#### Cons
- Building a table takes a longer time compared to views as we are generating objects at database and data warehouse disks.
- In order to get the latest data, the table needs to be recreated every time. Tables don’t retrieve the latest data from databases and data warehouses automatically.

#### When to use:
- When we do extensive calculations and transformations in our pipelines.
- When data needs to be frozen for the end-user interactions such as reports, advanced analytics or data science projects.

### 3. Ephemeral
Ephemeral models are not a built as a part of the databases or data warehouses. dbt treats ephemeral models as Common Table Expression (CTE). Instead, dbt will interpolate the code from this model into dependent models as a CTE.

A Common Table Expression (CTE) is a named temporary result set that you can reference within a SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement in SQL. It provides a way to simplify complex queries by breaking them into smaller, more manageable parts. CTEs are defined using the WITH clause and are often used to improve readability and maintainability of SQL code.

#### Pros
- Ephemeral models don’t generate database or data warehouse objects. This helps admins to keep their platforms clean.
- Since Ephemeral models don’t generate new objects, they are the fastest materialization method compared to views and tables.

#### Cons
- There is no way to access the intermediate models or objects as they are not stored in database or data warehouse.

#### When to use
- When we need light-weight and reusable transformations.
- When we don’t need to directly access or explain the underlying structure to the end users.

### 4. Incremental
Incremental materialization models allow you to insert or update new records into the specified table. With this method you can update the records since the last time that your table was updated.

The first time a model is run, the table is built by transforming all rows of source data. On subsequent runs, dbt transforms only the rows in your source data that you tell dbt to filter for, inserting them into the target table which is the table that has already been built.

Often, the rows you filter for on an incremental run will be the rows in your source data that have been created or updated since the last time dbt ran. As such, on each dbt run, your model gets built incrementally.

Using an incremental model limits the amount of data that needs to be transformed, vastly reducing the runtime of your transformations. This improves warehouse performance and reduces compute costs.

#### Pros
- You can significantly reduce the build time by just transforming new records
- Efficient solution for streaming data loads and large tables

#### Cons
- Incremental models require extra configuration and are an advanced usage of dbt

#### When to use
- When you are streaming data and need to store the differences in an efficient way
- When the table is too large to drop and create at every run

### 5. Materialized View
The materialized view concept is quite new compared to other techniques. The materialization allows the creation and maintenance of materialized views in the target database, if the database support this kind of objects.

Materialization makes use of the `on_configuration_change` config, which aligns with the incremental nature of the namesake database object. This setting tells dbt to attempt to make configuration changes directly to the object when possible, as opposed to completely recreating the object to implement the updated configuration.

The `on_configuration_change` config has three settings:
- `apply` (default) — attempt to update the existing database object if possible, avoiding a complete rebuild. If any individual configuration change requires a full refresh, a full refresh be performed in lieu of individual alter statements
- `continue` — allow runs to continue while also providing a warning that the object was left untouched. This could result in downstream failures as those models may depend on these unimplemented changes
- `fail` — force the entire run to fail if a change is detected

#### Pros
- Materialized views combine the query performance of a table with the data freshness of a view
- Materialized views operate much like incremental materializations, however they are usually able to be refreshed without manual interference on a regular cadence (depending on the database), forgoing the regular dbt batch refresh required with incremental materializations

#### Cons
- Not all databases or data warehouses support materialized views
- Due to the fact that materialized views are more complex database objects

#### When to use
- Consider materialized views for use cases where incremental models are sufficient, but you would like the data platform to manage the incremental logic and refresh.